--- 
layout: post
category: [journal, tech]
title: "Tetuan Valley Startup School: Day 1"
---

Tetuan Valley Day 1

You know in all the startup stories I've read I am not sure I've ever heard of a team starting a project after having only spoken once with their partner about the project and then meeting for the first time at Day 1 of class. I think about it because the odds of success in any startup are very low, and I can't imagine my situation being optimal. However, the Silicon Valley dictates the dogma of what a team should be like, but I think one thing that we can learn from the Silicon Valley is regardless of who decides what odds a team might have of success, that there are still many scenarios that would be considered a failure before inception. Also, if there is any measure of success in my situation it'll be an important case study to document and study over the course of the next six weeks. Dually, this would be sending a message of what Tetuan Valley is capable of producing.

Well, Day 1 was great. I really love that for a country that struggles with respect to English literacy that the Tetuan Valley is operated and taught in it. I guess it is no surprise to me the spaniards who did what it took to learn English are the same ones that are trying to be entrepreneurs.  

Tetuan Valley is starting off with 13 teams, and all are from relatively diverse backgrounds. There are quite a few native English speakers, and from my perspective it did not seem to intimadate any Spaniards to speak their minds. I felt the contributions were equal between the native English and Spanish group throughout the evening. The first hour was dedicated to talking about the start-up way. It focused on explaining the philosophy of a lean start-up. We had an original Okuri founder talk to us of how to get things going, using his current project as an example to model the lean start-up. I can really appreciate the level of transparency starting from the top. They explain that we cannot be afraid to talk about our idea. It is actually fundamental to share it and have a discourse with people about it because odds are they are more likely to help you in some way than to hurt you. This theme of transparency is permeating through the Western World in politics, business and life in the form of Facebook and other social networks. If the start-up community single contribution to this world is the trend of transparency, it will have then changed the world for the better with this change alone. 

Another hour was dedicated to how to deliver an effective speech. A fellow by the name of Bryan Stanford from <a href="http://project-presentation.com">Project Presentation</a>, explained to us the principles behind a successful presentation. I really enjoyed this specifically because I will be the one doing the presentations for our team. I know in order to be successful I need to internalize the principles of presentation zen so I can communicate our project in a way that is natural and effective . This will be one of my strengths that I can leverage. Ah yes, another important lesson taught tonight. Leverage your strengths of your team. Yesss, I am feeling the zen right now. It is not only important in the things that you do but in what you do not do. This is a message I need to keep close to me. 

After a couple of hours we took a break for pizza and soda and finished the class with our first pitch and Q&A. I think considering Alfonso and I are probably in what I would consider the fetus stage. Maybe that's an over statement. I think tonight we just conceived and if we make it to Wednesday we may be in the fetal stage. Let me digress. The presentation went well. People seemed to respond well to the idea but more importantly understood what I was trying to communicate. Unfortunately, Alfonso had to leave early due to public transportation limitations to his part of Madrid, but I am feeling optimistic about what he and I are going to attempt. Maybe I am being naive in thinking that but I am of the opinion that you need to be foolish to try to begin a start-up. There is no room for practicality when trying to get started in this business.