---
layout: post
category: [journal]
title: "And the Emmy goes to..."
---

There is a big web conference called LeWeb that takes place in Paris. Silicon Valley Bank and Lepe Partners are giving away 20 free tickets to entrepreneurs who apply with a blog post, video or by making noise on the social channels. There are only two tickets left. 

Last week I wrote them an email and I never heard from them. So then I posted a short video on YouTube this morning. It is a Drama and I might just win an Emmy award for it. Please watch and and spread the love. Here is the video link: http://bit.ly/s4grj8. If you're inclined to support me, you can do the following:

If you have Facebook, login and look at the top for the Search field:

Search 'LeWeb'. Click and go to the Fan Page
To the left there is a Welcome button. Click
In the right hand corner, you'll see a space that says "Write a recommendation" 
Write a note saying "This entrepreneur should go to LeWeb. Check out his video http://bit.ly/s4grj8. LeWeb would be missing out" - or something like that.

Also, if you have a twitter send a tweet with a similar message, the link http://bit.ly/s4grj8 ¨ and the following tags #svb #lepe #leWeb @afgeneralist that would be awesome! 

Oh, and of course get your friends to do it too, please!!!!!

I am thankful for your support...


This blog post is part of a 30 day promise I made to myself that I shared with my family and friends. Go here to read the original <a href="/journal/2011/11/03/art-of-accountability.html">post</a>. 