--- 
layout: post
category: [tech]
title: "The Entrepreneur's Puzzle"
---

Tetuan Valley's course structure is comprehensive covering everything from business models, law and financing. The information is straight forward but it is not enough to just understand what a lean startup model is, or how convertible debt works. The pieces need to be put together to develop a comprehensive business strategy that must take the market, economic and political climate into account. These are all moving targets and without educating oneself through the right information outlets you are not giving yourself a fair chance of getting it right. Since I started working on Groupject, my RSS feeds have taken on a whole new level of importance. For years I have been reading TechCrunch, Seth Godin, Paul Graham and other tech blogs but never have their words impacted me as much as they do now. Last Wednesday at class Alfonso and I explained we would work on Groupjects company mission in order to reach customers with a message. Coincidently, posts from Seth Godin, All Things Distributed (authored by the CTO of Amazon) and TechCrunch validated our reasoning to focus on our initial user base early on.

As I stated before, in order to create a comprehensive business strategy one must take into account the market among other things. Seth <a href="http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2011/11/when-minimal-viable-product-doesnt-work.html">explains</a> a minimum viable product isn't going to give you the exact feedback you need to determine whether or not it is going to be successful without the right market. This is because markets work different from engineering. For example, you can launch a software platform and you can have engineers test it and explain to you that your links don't work, or that your search runs slowly. These are important to know yet these changes are influenced by the product not by the market. When I interviewed <a href="http://www.netgamix.com/information/about">Raul Sann</a>, CTO of NetGamix, for EU Startups, the biggest lesson he learned was that before you begin to code, you need to talk to potential customers. It's the nature of an engineer to start building, but they must wait. Otherwise, you end up having to rebuild the product. Ultimately, what I am trying to point out is that both Raul and Seth Godin make it very clear that the user comes before the technology. Amazon is a perfect example of this.
 
CTO of Amazon, Werner Vogel, published on his blog an <a href="http://www.allthingsdistributed.com/2006/11/working_backwards.html">article</a> explaining that before any code is written for a new service to be launched by Amazon, they go through four steps. First, a press release is written. Next, a FAQ is written from the inquiries generated from the press release. Thirdly, user case models are created consisting of mock-ups defining the user experience. And, lastly a manual that explains concepts, and the role and functions of each type of user. By the time the product is ready to be built, they now can spend the fewest amount of technical resources necessary. But in my opinion, the most powerful outcome of this model is a product defined by the user and built by the engineer. This process is fundamental to creating the market around your product, or as Seth Godin calls it building a tribe. The company must find users that care, and in turn the users will appreciate a company that listens. It is a positive feedback loop. Without a tribe, you won't get the feedback necessary to measure the demand from the market and receive the right input for improvement. Consequently, you waste time working in the wrong direction or end up giving up much sooner than you need to. 

Lastly, TechCrunch published an <a href="http://techcrunch.com/2011/11/04/dont-launch-a-company-launch-a-fund-or-the-series-a-will-die/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Techcrunch+%28TechCrunch%29">article</a> explaining there is an abundance of Angel funding but yet a lack of Series A funding, which is critical for rapid expansion. Generally, most startups run at a loss for quite a while before revenue is generated. Furthermore, in order to generate the revenue and future projections major developments need to be made, requiring more staff etc. but without the right funding available, this is not possible. Imagine a startup that bases their business strategy around rapid expansion, only to realize that he is destroying his business before it had a chance. Reading this is when it really hit me that TechCrunch and my other blogs are an invaluable resource for any entrepreneur. The principles of financing, business models and markets are important but they are all moving targets, and without being up to date on the current trends you're walking in the dark and eventually falling into a black hole. This week's class and recent blog posts have made an impact on Groupject's first few steps. Step one, talk to users. Step two, design per the user. I'll let you know when I have Step 3.




