--- 
layout: post
category: [journal, tech]
title: "Tetúan Valley Startup School"
---

Well I haven't been posting at all and I'm feeling guilty about it since I just got my site up and haven't provided any new content. In any case, for the past month or so I've been running around Madrid attending different technology related events. I've written about a few of them for <a href="http://www.eu-startups.com">EU-Startups.com</a>. Well one group of people that I've come in contact with a few times is Tetúan Valley, a non-profit startup incubator. I discovered them a few months ago when I was still living in the states while researching the startup scene in Madrid. It was obvious to me they were doing interesting things to help cultivate the startup ecosystem and knew that I needed to get in touch with them when I moved over here. 

Well I came to find out that Tetúan Valley is managed by a team of people from <a href"http://www.okuriventures.com/en/index.php">Okuri Ventures</a>, a company designed to support and train entrepreneurs, educators and investors. Well my first contact with them was at Startup Bootcamp Madrid Investor Day (Okuri are Co-Founders of the program). I went on behalf of EU-Startups and I got to see how they were like behind the scenes as they managed all the teams, investors and press. Overall, I was impressed with the event with the exception of some of the tapas that were served. Also, it was impossible to get a beer and there was no wi-fi. Let me digress. When I first found them I saw that Tetúan Valley hosted a six-week incubator program that started in October. So I looked into again and decided I wanted to apply. After reading the requirements I felt like I was a good match except for the fact that I could not technically get a working model up of my idea. Plus, I had no network of people to talk to about finding a technical co-founder. I mulled it over and I decided to apply a few days before the deadline. Well, of course I was notified that they could not accept me because I did not have a technical co-founder. However, a day or two later I got an e-mail asking me to come in for an interview. Long story short, they thought my idea was interesting and they wanted to pair me up with someone who had a not-so-good idea but was technically capable. After looking at a few portfolios, interviewing a couple developers, and getting over the fact that I am about to attempt to get a project up and going with a 19 year old fellow that I do not know from a hole in the wall, I notified Tetúan Valley that I will be joining the program.

The program is six weeks long consisting of one meet-up a week that will be three to four hours long. Each meet-up will cover some sort of start-up related topic with presentations from mentors. The idea is that in six weeks we present a working model of our idea. If it meets certain requirements then it will be presented to investors for analysis. All in all I am pretty excited about this opportunity. It will give me a chance to meet like minded people looking to do cool things. Tomorrow is the first day so I will likely be posting something soon on how it is going. 