---
layout: post
category: [journal]
title: "1 year"
---

Today is the one year anniversary of Sarah and I. This past year has been a very active one for me. There have been a number of changes, some expected and some not, along with personal decisions that I've made that would be seen as self-serving at best. 

Six months after graduating, I lost my job. I had seen the writing on the wall for a while, but it still happened. Sarah was there to help me with the transition. I decided at that point that I didn't want to get into another 9-5. I wanted to go traveling by myself across the USA. Without hesitating, Sarah told me to do it. I toured the United States for two months while hitch-hiking/ridesharing and sleeping at strangers' houses. She simultaneously supported me 100%, while elegantly expressing her concern for my unorthodox way of travel.  

Three months ago we moved to Spain. We were both in favor, but she clearly had to give up more than I did to make this move happen. Most recently, I began working on a web project at an internet accelerator that leaves me absent more often than not. She is my number one supporter helping with anything, ranging from supper waiting for me when I get home late to editing my written work. 

I am thankful for Sarah's endless love and support... 

This blog post is part of a 30 day promise I made to myself that I shared with my family and friends. Go here to read the original <a href="/journal/2011/11/03/art-of-accountability.html">post</a>. 

